README.md, before:

### Authors
Ben Deininger
Nicholas Malensek
David Edwards
Stephen Rhoads

### For Local Development :
Download Spark 1.5.1 for Hadoop 2.6 (http://spark.apache.org/downloads.html)
Add Jars to IDE

### For Development in CS Lab :
cs computers - spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6

### Flight Data :
http://stat-computing.org/dataexpo/2009/the-data.html

Stage Data in Local Hadoop Cluster ($HADOOP_HOME/bin/hdfs dfs -put <path_to_data>)

### Run Wordcount
Example:
/usr/local/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/bin/spark-submit --jars flight_analysis.jar --class cs455.flightdata.spark.WordCount flight_analysis.jar hdfs://salem.cs.colostate.edu:50000/data/flight_data

Note:
WordCount works with books taken from Assignment 3 instructions
Running wordCount on the Flight Data hasn't been successful yet; currently looking into it
This may have to do with the dataset

### Run Flight Data Analysis
I'm starting to look at the charting, so wanted some realistic data to work with.  I ran Ben's initial exmple:

``` nohup spark-submit --master yarn --class cs455.flightdata.spark.FlightDelayAnalysis flight_analysis.jar /data/flightdata 2>error.txt 1> flightdataanalysis.txt &```

Notes:

I had added /usr/local/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/bin/ to my path.

`nohup` ignores the terminal closing, so will continue running (with the &) when my computer sleeps.

I redirect stderr to `error.txt` (lots of spark output), and the actual output to `flightdataanalysis.txt`.  

My data is stored in my hdfs cluster in /data/flightdata

Commit message:

updated NumberOfAirlinesDelays to keep track of all flights each tail number was in as well as delays.
updated readme.md to help professor/ta run our files

README.md, after:

### Authors
Ben Deininger
Nicholas Malensek
David Edwards
Stephen Rhoads

### For Local Development :
Download Spark 1.5.1 for Hadoop 2.6 (http://spark.apache.org/downloads.html)
Add Jars to IDE

### For Development in CS Lab :
cs computers - spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6

### Flight Data :
http://stat-computing.org/dataexpo/2009/the-data.html

Stage Data in Local Hadoop Cluster ($HADOOP_HOME/bin/hdfs dfs -put <path_to_data>)

The script load_flight_data_into_hdfs.sh loads all of the data into hdfs. The only modification the script
may need is the destination for the files.

For doing plane model analysis, an additional data set is needed.  Download the aircraft registry 'database' from
https://www.faa.gov/licenses_certificates/aircraft_certification/aircraft_registry/releasable_aircraft_download/ .
Two files are needed from this set, MASTER.txt and ACFTREF.txt, and both will need the first row removed before being used.
The first row contains column headers, and they aren't needed for the spark processing.

Once these files are acquired and modified, put them into hdfs, but in a different folder that the flight data.

### Run Flight Data Analysis
Add /usr/local/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/bin/ to path.

Flight Cancellation: all time cancellation counts by cancellation code, cancellation reasons over time and cancellation counts by carrier code

    ``` spark-submit --master yarn --class cs455.flightdata.spark.flight_cancellation.FlightCancellation flight_analysis.jar <flight-data-input-dir> <output-dir> ```

Distance Impact: counts for delays and cancellations by distance grouping of 500 miles (0-500, 501-1000.... >5000)

    ``` spark-submit --master yarn --class cs455.flightdata.spark.distance_impact.DistanceImpact flight_analysis.jar <flight-data-input-dir> <output-dir> ```

Impacts of Active Airlines on Delays: counts by each month on how many flights occured, how many were delayed, and how many airlines flew at least once that month.
Also provides information on delays by aircraft model.
   
    ``` spark-submit --master yarn --class cs455.flightdata.spark.number_airlines_impact.NumberOfAirlinesDelay flight_analysis.jar <flight-data-input-dir> <output-dir> <master-file-location> <ACFTREF-file-location>```

---- todo put in brief overview of areas your code ----

### Visualization

The csv and json files are parsed, lightly processed, and turned into graphs that can be viewed here: http://cs455.dev-cycle.com/
